### 2.1.c Artículos en Extenso en Memorias de Congresos Internacionales

1.	Tonatiuh Matos and Guadalupe Rodríguez. 
One Dimensional Subspaces of Exact Solutions of the n-dimensional Einstein's Equations. 
In Proceedings of SILARG VII, Oaxtepec, Mexico. 
Ed. by J.C. D'Olivo et. al., 
World Sientific Singapore, (1990) p.456-460.

2.	Ricardo Becerril and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Exact Solutions from one Dimensional Subspaces in Kaluza-Klein Theory. 
In Proceedings of SILARG VII, Oaxtepec, Mexico. 
Ed. by J.C. D'Olivo et. al., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (1990) p.504-509.

3.	Tonatiuh Matos. 
5D Model For the Magnetosphere of Static Bodies. 
In Proceedings of the VII Jorge Andre Swieca Summer School, Brazil. 
Ed. Victor Riveles, 
Word Scientific Singapore, (1994), p.766-772.

4.	Tonatiuh Matos. 
Chiral Equations in Gravitational Theories. 
In Proceedings of the International Conference on Aspects of General Relativity and Mathematical Physics, Mexico DF. 
Ed. by N. Breton, R. Capovilla y T. Matos. 
Ediciones CINVESTAV (1994), p.176-184.

5.	Tonatiuh Matos and Nora Breton. 
5D Model for the Magnestosphere of Rotating Bodies. 
In Proceedings of SILARG VIII, Aguas de Lindoia, Brazil. 
Ed. by P. S. Letelier and W. A. Rodrigues Jr., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (1994), p 407-411.

6.	Nora Breton and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Colliding Plane Gravitational Waves as Harmonic Maps. 
In Proceedings of SILARG VIII, Aguas de Lindoia, Brazil. 
Ed. by P. S. Letelier and W. A. Rodrigues Jr., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (1994), p 577-581.

7.	Tonatiuh Matos. 
Dilaton Solutions with Arbitrary Electromagnetic Field. 
In Proceedings of the VII Marcel Grossman Meeting, Stanford, USA, 
Ed. by D. Ruffini et. al., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (1996), p.304-306.

8.	Tonatiuh Matos, Merced Montesinos and Gabriella Piccinelli. 
Exact Solutions in Inflationary Theories from Dilaton Gravity. 
In Proceedings of the First Mexican School on Gravitation and Mathematical Physics, Guanajuato, Gto. 
Ed. A. Macias et. al., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (1996), 345-350.

9.	Alfredo Macias, Abel Camacho, Eckehard Mielke and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Effective Weinberg-Salam Model from Higher Dimensions. 
In Proceedings of the First Mexican School on Gravitation and Mathematical Physics, (1996), 277-286.

10. Tonatiuh Matos and Hugo Morales-Técotl. 
A New Program for Quantum Gravity using Harmonic Maps. 
In Recent Developments in Gravitation and Mathematical Physics. 
Ed. A. Macias et. al., 
http://kaluza.physik.uni-konstanz.de/2MS or CD-Rom by Science Network Publishing, (1998).

11. Tonatiuh Matos and Hugo Villegas. 
Post-Post-Newtonian Limit of a Dilatonic Gravity Model. 
In Recent Developments in Gravitation and Mathematical Physics. 
Ed. A. Macias et. al., 
http://kaluza.physik.uni-konstanz.de/2MS or CD-Rom by Science Network Publishing, (1998). arXiv:gr-qc/9703048. 

12. Tonatiuh Matos and Francisco S. Guzmán. 
Modeling Dilaton Stars with Arbitrary Electromagnetic Field. 
In Proceedings of the VIII Marcel Grossman Meeting, Jerusalem, Israel, 
Ed. by D. Ruffini et. al., Word Scientific Singapore, (1999), p. 333.

13. Tonatiuh Matos. 
From the Strings Theory to the Dark Matter in Galaxies. 
In Proceedings of the VIII Mexican School of Particles and Fields,
Ed. by M. Mondragon et. al., 
American Institute of Physics (AIM), (1999), p 382.

14. Francisco S. Guzmán, Tonatiuh Matos and Gabino Torres-Vega. 
Tully-Fisher Relations and the Background Space-Time of a Galaxy. 
In Proceedings of the Third Mexican School on Gravitation and Mathematical Physics, (2000). 
Ed. by Nora Breton et. al., Universidad de Guanajuato.

15. Luis A. Ureña-López, Tonatiuh Matos and Francisco S. Guzmán. Cosmic Scalar Field. 
In Proceedings of the Third Mexican School on Gravitation and Mathematical Physics, (2000). Ed. by Nora Breton et. al., Universidad de Guanajuato.

16. Miguel Alcubierre, F. Siddhartha Guzman, Tonatiuh Matos, Darío Núñez, L. Arturo Ureña-López and Petra Wiederhold.
Scalar Field Dark Matter and Galaxy Formation. 
In Dark Matter in Astro and Particle Physics 
Edited by H. V. Klapdor-Kleingrothuas and R. D. Viollier. 
Springer Verlag (2002). ISBN 3-540-44257-X, p. 356-364. arXiv:astro-ph/0204307.

18.	Tonatiuh Matos. 
Galaxy Formation from the Scalar Field Dark Matter Model. 
In Developments in Mathematical and Experimental Physics. 
Ed. by A. Macias, F. Uribe and E. Diaz. 
Kluwer Academic (2002), p. 111.

19.	Francisco S. Guzmán, Tonatiuh Matos and Darío Núñez. 
Relativistic Dark Matter in Spiral Galaxies. 
In Proceedings of the IX Marcel Grossman Meeting, Roma, Italia, 
Ed. by D. Ruffini et. al., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (2002), p. 2151.

20.	Luis A. Ureña and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Complex Scalar Field Dark Matter. 
In Proceedings of the IX Marcel Grossman Meeting, Roma, Italia, 
Ed. by D. Ruffini et. al., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (2002), p. 2049.

21.	Ricardo Becerril, Maribel Rios and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Rotating Gross-Perry-Sorkin Monopole Solution in 5-dimensional Kaluza-Klein Theory.
In Proceedings of the IX Marcel Grossman Meeting, Roma, Italia, 
Ed. By D. Ruffini et. al., 
Word Scientific Singapore, (2002), p. 1055.

22.	Argelia Bernal and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Non Cuspy Galactic Halos from Scalar Field Dark Matter. 
In "2nd Mexican Meeting on Mathematical and Experimental Physics", 
Ed. Alfredo Macias et. al. 
AIP Conf. Proc. 758, 161, (2005).
doi.org/10.1063/1.1900516

23.	Dario Nunez, Roberto A. Sussman, Jesus Zavala, Luis G. Cabral-Rosetti and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Empirical testing of Tsallis’ Thermodynamics as a model for dark matter halos. 
In Proceedings of X Mexican Workshop on Particles and Fields, Morelia Michoacan, Mexico, 
AIP Conf. Proc. 857, 316, (2006). e-Print:arXiv:astro-ph/0604126.
doi.org/10.1063/1.2359275

24.	Axel de la Macorra and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Dark Energy and Dark Matter. 
In Particles and Fields, Commemorative Volume of the Division of Particles and Fields of the Mexican Physics Society, 
Ed. by M.A. Perez-Angon, L. Urrutia and L. Villaseñor. 
AIP Conf. Proc. 857, 191, (2006).
doi.org/10.1063/1.2359404

25.	Tonatiuh Matos. 
Wormholes, Star-trek: Reality and Science Fiction. 
In Advanced Sommer School in Physics 2006, 
Ed. by O. Miranda, M. Carbajal, L.M. Montaño and S. A. Tomas. 
AIP Conf. Proc. 885, 49, (2007).
doi.org/10.1063/1.2563176

26.	Tonatiuh Matos, Jose-Ruben Luebano, Hugo García-Compean and Alberto Vázquez. 
Alternative Interpretation for the Moduli Fields of String Theory. 
In VII Mexican School on Gravitation and Mathematical Physics. Journal of Physics Conf. Series 91, (2007), 012014.

27.	Tonatiuh Matos, Alberto Vázquez and J.A. Magaña. 
Study of Several Potentials as Scalar Field Dark Matter Candidates. 
In Gravitation and Cosmology: Proceedings of the Third International Meeting on Gravitation and Cosmology. 
Editors: Alfredo Herrera-Aguilar et. al. pp. 144-170.
AIP Conf. Proc. 1083, 144, (2009).
doi.org/10.1063/1.3058564

28.	Miguel A. García Aspeitia and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Cosmic Acceleration from Topological Considerations. 
In Proceedings of The Invisible Universe, 
AIP Conf. Proc. 1241, 876 (2010). 
doi.org/10.1063/1.3462728   

29.	Ivan Rodriguez-Montoya, Tonatiuh Matos and Miguel A. García Aspeitia. 
Ultra light bosonic dark matter and CMB. 
In Proceedings of ``The Invisible Universe", 
AIP Conf. Proc. 1241, 1221 (2010).     
doi.org/10.1063/1.3462623

30.	Tonatiuh Matos, Abril Suárez and Juan Aldebarán Magaña. 
Structure Formation with Scalar Field Dark Matter. 
In Proceedings of ``School of Gravitation and Mathematical Physics", 
Editors: Hugo Morales-Tecotl, Luis Ureña-López, pp. 283.
AIP Conf. Proc. 1256, 283 (2010).

31.	Miguel A. García Aspeitia, Juan Aldebarán Magaña, Tonatiuh Matos, Pablo A. Rodríguez. 
Primordial Perturbations Produced by a Self Interacting Scalar Field in the Braneworld: The Dynamical Systems Perspective. 
In Proceedings of ``School of Gravitation and Mathematical Physics", 
Editors: Hugo Morales-Tecotl, Luis Ureña-López, pp. 275.
AIP Conf. Proc. 1256, 275 (2010).  
doi.org/10.1063/1.3473865
  
32.	Iván Rodríguez-Montoya, Miguel A., García-Aspeitia, Juan Magaña and Tonatiuh Matos
Cosmic Braneworld and Ultralight Bosonic Dark Matter.  
In Developments in Mathematical and Experimental Physics. 
Ed. by A. Macias, F. Uribe and E. Diaz. 
AIP Conf. Proc. 1318, 224 (2010)  
doi.org/10.1063/1.3531635

33.	Darío Núñez, Alma X. González-Morales, Jorge L. Cervantes-Cota and Tonatiuh Matos
A warning on the determination of the determination of halo mass. 
Ed. by A. Macias, F. Uribe and E. Diaz. 
AIP Conf. Proc. 1318, 112 (2010). arXiv:1111.6048
doi.org/10.1063/1.3531620

34.	Tonatiuh Matos and Miguel A. García Aspeitia. 
Scalar Field Dark Matter from two Concentric Spherical Branes Universe. 
In Proceedings of The Dark Side of the Univese, 
Editors: David Delephine.
Journal of Physics Conf. Series. 315, (2011), 012025.
doi.org/10.1007/s10714-011-1294-3.

35.	M.A. Rodríguez-Meza, Alberto Hernández-Almada and Tonatiuh Matos.
A Hydrodynamic Model of Galactic Halos. 
In Developments in Hydrodynamical Physics. 
Ed. by Jaime Clapp and Rodríguez-Meza. 
Springer Verlag, (2011).

36.	Alberto Hernández Almada, M.A. Rodríguez-Meza and T. Matos
Jeans’ instability analysis of scalar field halos, 
AIP Conference Proceedings 1396, 196 (2011);
Contribution to: 8th Workshop of the gravitation and mathematical physics division of the Mexican physical society, 196-200
doi.org/10.1063/1.3647547.

37.	Juan Aldebarán Magaña and Tonatiuh Matos.
A brief Review of the Scalar Field Dark Matter model
In Proceedings of The of the XIII Mexican Workshop on Particles and Fields, 
Editors: Juan Barranco et. al., Journal of Physics Conf. Series. 378, (2012), 012012. 
doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/378/1/012012.

38.	Abril Suárez, Victor H. Robles and Tonatiuh Matos
A Review on the Scalar Field/ Bose-Einstein Condensate Dark Matter Model
Astrophysics and Space Science Proceedings 38, Chapter 9 (2013). arXiv:1302.0903.

39.	Abril Suárez, Victor Robles, Tonatiuh Matos
A Review on the Scalr Field/Bose-Einstein Condensate Dark Matter Model
Published in: Astrophys.Space Sci.Proc  38 (2014) 107-142 Contribution to: 4th International Meeting on Gravitation and Cosmology (MGC 4), 107-142
e-Print: 1302.0903 [astro-ph.CO]
doi.org/10.1007/978-3-319-02063-1_9

40.	Tonatiuh Matos and Elias Castellanos
Phase Transition from the Symmetry Breaking of Charged Klein-Gordon Fields.
In Recent Developments on Physics in Strong Gravitational Fields
V Lepolodo García-Colín Mexican Meeting on Mathematical and Esperimental Physics
AIP Conf. Proc. 1577, 181-191, (2014).
doi.org/10.1063/1.4861954

41.	Victor H. Robles and T. Matos. 
Finite Temperature density profile in SFDM. 
In Proceedings of UDLA DM2012. (2014).
Editors: David Clein et. al. Pg 17.
doi.org/10.1007/978-94-007-7241-0_2.

42.	Abril Suárez, Victor Robles and Tonatiuh Matos.
A Review on the Scalar Field/Bose Einstein Condensate Dark Matter Model
In Acelerated Cosmic Expansion
Proceedings of the IV International Meeting on Gravitation and Cosmology. 
Astrophysics and Space Science Proceedings Vol. 38. (2014), pg 107.
Editors: Claudia Moreno et. al., arXiv:1302.0903. 

43.	Luis A. Martinez and Tonatiuh Matos. 
Simulating Galaxy Formation with Scalar Field Dark Matter. 
In Proceedings of PASCOS 2012, J. Phys: Conf. Ser. 485 012022 (2014)
Editors: Myriam Mondragon et. al. 
doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/485/1/012022.

44.	Tonatiuh Matos and M. A. Rodgríguez-Meza
Study of Symmetry Breaking of Charged Scalar Field: Hydrodynamic Version
In Proceedings of the X Workshop of the Gravitation and Mathematical Physics Division
J. Phys.: Conf. Ser. 545 (2014) 01200.
Editors: Ricardo Becerril et. al.
doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/545/1/012009.

45.	Tonatiuh Matos and Victor Robles
Scalar Field (Wave) Dark Matter
In Proceedings of the Fourteenth Marcel Grossmann Meeting
On Recent Developments in Theoretical and Experimental General Relativity, Astrophysics, and Relativistic Field Theories (2018).
Edited by: Massimo Bianchi, Robert T Jantzen, Remo Ruffini.
pag. 2051. arXiv:1601.01350.
doi.org/10.1142/9789813226609_0224.

46.	Tonatiuh Matos and Galaxia Miranda
Exact Rotating Wormholes with Ghost Matter
In Proceedings of the Fourteenth Marcel Grossmann Meeting
On Recent Developments in Theoretical and Experimental General Relativity, Astrophysics, and Relativistic Field Theories (2018).
Edited by: Massimo Bianchi, Robert T Jantzen, Remo Ruffini.
pag. 1397-1406.
doi.org/10.1142/9789813226609_0119.

47.	Omar de J. Cabrera-Rosas and Tonatiuh Matos
Imaging formation process for DM profiles.
In Proceedings of the WSPC (2021).

48.	Omar Gallegos, Tonatiuh Matos and Pierre-Henri Chavanis
Hydrodynamic representation and energy balance for the Dirac and Weyl fermions in curved space-times.
In Proceedings of the Sixteenth Marcel Grossmann Meeting
On Recent Developments in Theoretical and Experimental General Relativity, Astrophysics, and Relativistic Field Theories (2021).
Edited by: Massimo Bianchi, Robert T Jantzen, Remo Ruffini.
pag.
doi.org/ 10.1142/9789811269776_0201.

49.	Omar de J. Cabrera-Rosas and Tonatiuh Matos
Imaging formation process for DM profiles.
In “Proceedings of the Sixteenth Marcel Grossmann Meeting
On Recent Developments in Theoretical and Experimental General Relativity, Astrophysics, and Relativistic Field Theories (2021).”
Edited by: Remo Ruffini and Gregory Vereshchagin.
pag. 2222.
doi.org/10.1142/9789811269776_0173.

50.	Edwin L. Pérez-Ochoa and Tonatiuh Matos
Dark Energy from the Gravitational Wave Background with Scalar Field Dark Matter.
In “Proceedings IWARA 2024” by César Augusto Zen Vasconcellos et. al. Astronomische Nachrichten 2025; 0:e70004
doi.org/10.1002/asna.70004

51.	Juan S. Jerez Rodriguez and Tonatiuh Matos
Stochastic Quantum Mechanics in Curved Spaces: Application to Schwarzschild Black Holes.
In “Proceedings IWARA 2024” by César Augusto Zen Vasconcellos et. al. Astronomische Nachrichten 2025; 0:e70007
doi.org/10.1002/asna.70007

52.	Claudio Salas and Tonatiuh Matos
Early Analysis of Scalar Perturbations in the Compton Mass Dark Energy (CMaDE) Model
In “Proceedings of the Sixteenth Marcel Grossmann Meeting
On Recent Developments in Theoretical and Experimental General Relativity, Astrophysics, and Relativistic Field Theories (2021).”
Edited by: Remo Ruffini.

### 2.1.c Artículos en Extenso en Memorias de Congresos Nacionales

1.	Tonatiuh Matos and L. Arturo Urena-López. 
Sistemas no Lineales en Cosmología. 
In Revista Ciencia Ergo Sum, 8, (2001), 349-356
Lizbeth M. Fernández-Hernández1, Mario A. Rodríguez-Meza1 and Tonatiuh Matos2
Comparison between two scalar field models using rotation curves of spiral galaxies
En Memorias XI Taller DGFM, 2016
IOP Conf. Series: Journal of Physics: Conf. Series 1010 (2018) 012005 
doi.org/10.1088/1742-6596/1010/1/012005.

