# Stochastic Quantum Mechanics (SQM)

It is a fact that spacetime is stochastic, possibly due to its quantum fluctuations or the existence of a gravitational wave background. Based on this, we discard stochasticity in Einstein's equations, since these fluctuations curve spacetime but alter its gravitation very little, but we do consider the trajectories of particles in this stochastic spacetime. In this paradigm, particles move along the geodesic plus a stochastic term. In this project we propose a new paradigm for Quantum Mechanics based on this fact.

It is a fact that we live within a Gravitational Wave Background (GWB). Strictly speaking, all motion that occurs in the universe generates gravitational waves. From the Big Bang, inflation, the production of primordial black holes, the formation of black holes, collisions between them, the movement of galaxies through the universe, etc. These fluctuations in spacetime are quite small, but if Planck's formula for the energy of massless particles holds true: $E=h\nu=hc/\lambda$, where $h$ is Planck's constant and $\lambda$ is the wavelength of the particle, these fluctuations contain a large amount of energy, even when they are sufficiently small (where $\lambda$ is small). Therefore, it is worthwhile to take this fluctuation in spacetime into account. This idea is similar to that of a lake where boats do not perceive the small fluctuations, but ants or fleas do perceive the movement of the waves.

There are several ways to consider the gravitational wave background. Of course, we could treat the GWB as a stochastic spacetime and perform all the complex mathematical calculations (see for example Isaac Layton and Jonathan Oppenheim - _PRX Quantum_ 5 (2024) 2, 020331). Instead, let's assume that the GWB minimally alters the gravitation of spacetime, so that we can neglect stochasticity in Einstein's field equation and consider it only for geodesics. In E. Escobar-Aguilar, Tonatiuh Matos and J.I. Jimenez-Aquino, [Fundamental Klein-Gordon Equation from Stochastic Mechanics in Curved Spacetime](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10701-025-00873-y), -_Found.Phys._ 55 (2025) 4, 60 we did this and showed that, if we consider the geodesic of a particle plus a stochastic term in an arbitrary curved spacetime, the field equation of the particle is the Klein-Gordon equation for the complex function $\Phi=\sqrt{n}\exp(\Theta)$. We showed that the angle $\Theta$ determines the geodesic of the particles in spacetime and $n$ determines their stochastic velocity. Since the non-relativistic limit of the Klein-Gordon equation is the Schrödinger equation, we conclude that quantum mechanics (QM) can be determined from the stochastic nature of spacetime fluctuations, rather than from the uncertainty principle. In this way, we obtain a completely new interpretation of QM.

In the present project we use this fact and study the behavior of photons close to the horizon of a black hole. We find exact solutions of the Klein-Gordon equation and with theise solutions we can determine the geodesic and the stochastic velocity of the photon. We can plot the trajectories of photons near to a black hole and see them in different frames.

