# Wormholes (WH) and Black Holes (BH)

To date, many exotic predictions of Einstein's equations have been corroborated, with one exception: wormholes (WHs). In the last time, we have analysed new exact solutions to the Einstein-Maxwell-Dilaton or Phantom equations, which represent rotating WHs with magnetic and electric fields. The solutions contain a ring singularity that, like other solutions, satisfies Wormhole Cosmic Censorship; that is, the singularity is causally disconnected by the WH throat. We have shown that this WH are traversable through regions close to the poles, where the tidal forces and magnetic field are reasonably small. We satisfy the energy conditions for the dilaton-like solution. We argue that if dilaton-like interactions can exist in nature, for example, if extra dimensions exist as in superstring theory, WHs are a natural realistic prediction of Einstein's equations, and we should be able to observe them somehow, probably as black hole mimics. We have presented several examples of realistic WH that may occur in nature, and we also introduce new exact black hole solutions.

Since Einstein's equations (EEq) were formulated in 1916, their predictions have been stunning. Einstein himself predicted that his equations implied the existence of gravitational fluctuations, gravitational waves, but these are so small that, according to him, they are impossible to see or detect. Today, we have detected them hundreds of times, giving rise to a new era of astronomy where we detect astrophysical objects using gravitational waves instead of photons. In the same year, Karl Schwarzschild found the first exact, spherically symmetric solution to EEq. Later, it was discovered that Schwarzschild's solution implies the existence of small, compact objects where light cannot escape. Therefore, these objects were called black holes. At that time it was believed that the existence of these objects was impossible and that there must be a mechanism to prevent their existence. Today, we have at least two photographs of these objects and hundreds of detections of collisions of these objects using gravitational waves. One of the most interesting predictions of the EEq is the expansion of the universe. Even Einstein refused to accept it. He famously added the cosmological constant to his equations to prevent expansion, but without success. Today, we not only know that the universe is expanding, but that it is accelerating, something Einstein's equations cannot predict. And so on. To date, we are unaware of any important physical predictions of Einstein's equations that cannot be observed or detected, with the exception of wormholes (WH). The high level of prediction of the EEq is astonishing, and many of them are surprising. 

In this proyect, we use the Einstein-Maxwell-Dilaton (EMD) theory to derive a new solutions that generalises wormhole solutions: the asymptotically flat configuration and the NUT spacetime incorporating a magnetic monopole and a scalar field, thereby obtaining new exact solutions of the EEq which, in the framework, which includes electric and magnetic fields together with a scalar field that may be of dilaton type (i.e., real and coupled to the electromagnetic field) or of phantom type (i.e., featuring a negative kinetic term in the Lagrangian). This configurations are further separated into super-extreme and sub-extreme regime, which correspond, respectively, to a wormhole and to new exact black hole solutions (valid for any selected gravitational theory, coupled to a phantom/dilaton-type scalar field, and accommodating both asymptotically flat and NUT-type spacetime geometries).

Some representative publications: 

[Wormhole cosmic censorship. Tonatiuh Matos, Luis Ureña-López and Galaxia Miranda. _General Relativity and Gravitation_ **48**, 61, (2016)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10714-016-2040-7), 

[Kerr-like phantom wormhole. Galaxia Miranda, Tonatiuh Matos and Nadiezhda Montelongo García. _General Relativity and Gravitation_ **46**, 1613, (2014)](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s10714-013-1613-y), 

[Wormhole cosmic censorship: an analytical proof. Juan Carlos del Águla and Tonatiuh Matos. _Classical and Quantum Gravity_ **36** 015018](https://iopscience.iop.org/article/10.1088/1361-6382/aaf336), 

[Geodesic completeness of a ring wormhole. Juan Carlos del Águla and Tonatiuh Matos. _Physical Review D_ **107**.064047](https://journals.aps.org/prd/abstract/10.1103/PhysRevD.107.064047) 

[On the Possibility of the Existence of Wormholes in Nature. Leonel Bixano and Tonatiuh Matos. _arXiv:2505.20167_](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.20167),  

[The space-time structure of an untouchable naked singularity. Leonel Bixano and Tonatiuh Matos. _arXiv:2508.01820_](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2508.01820)